build-tests/api-documenter-test/etc/markdown/api-documenter-test.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [api-documenter-test](./api-documenter-test.md)

## api-documenter-test package

api-extractor-test-05

This project tests various documentation generation scenarios and doc comment syntaxes.

## Classes

|  Class | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [DocBaseClass](./api-documenter-test.docbaseclass.md) | Example base class |
|  [DocClass1](./api-documenter-test.docclass1.md) | This is an example class. |
|  [DocClassInterfaceMerge](./api-documenter-test.docclassinterfacemerge.md) | Class that merges with interface |
|  [Generic](./api-documenter-test.generic.md) | Generic class. |
|  [SystemEvent](./api-documenter-test.systemevent.md) | A class used to exposed events. |

## Enumerations

|  Enumeration | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [DocEnum](./api-documenter-test.docenum.md) | Docs for DocEnum |

## Functions

|  Function | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [globalFunction(x)](./api-documenter-test.globalfunction.md) | An exported function |
|  [yamlReferenceUniquenessTest()](./api-documenter-test.yamlreferenceuniquenesstest.md) |  |

## Interfaces

|  Interface | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [DocClassInterfaceMerge](./api-documenter-test.docclassinterfacemerge.md) | Interface that merges with class |
|  [IDocInterface1](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface1.md) |  |
|  [IDocInterface2](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface2.md) |  |
|  [IDocInterface3](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface3.md) | Some less common TypeScript declaration kinds. |
|  [IDocInterface4](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface4.md) | Type union in an interface. |
|  [IDocInterface5](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface5.md) | Interface without inline tag to test custom TOC |
|  [IDocInterface6](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface6.md) | Interface without inline tag to test custom TOC with injection |

## Namespaces

|  Namespace | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [EcmaSmbols](./api-documenter-test.ecmasmbols.md) | A namespace containing an ECMAScript symbol |
|  [OuterNamespace](./api-documenter-test.outernamespace.md) | A top-level namespace |

## Variables

|  Variable | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [constVariable](./api-documenter-test.constvariable.md) | An exported variable declaration. |

## Type Aliases

|  Type Alias | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [ExampleTypeAlias](./api-documenter-test.exampletypealias.md) | A type alias |
|  [GenericTypeAlias](./api-documenter-test.generictypealias.md) |  |
|  [TypeAlias](./api-documenter-test.typealias.md) |  |

Commit message:

Add a test case for hyperlinked function parameters and return value

build-tests/api-documenter-test/etc/markdown/api-documenter-test.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [api-documenter-test](./api-documenter-test.md)

## api-documenter-test package

api-extractor-test-05

This project tests various documentation generation scenarios and doc comment syntaxes.

## Classes

|  Class | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [DocBaseClass](./api-documenter-test.docbaseclass.md) | Example base class |
|  [DocClass1](./api-documenter-test.docclass1.md) | This is an example class. |
|  [DocClassInterfaceMerge](./api-documenter-test.docclassinterfacemerge.md) | Class that merges with interface |
|  [Generic](./api-documenter-test.generic.md) | Generic class. |
|  [SystemEvent](./api-documenter-test.systemevent.md) | A class used to exposed events. |

## Enumerations

|  Enumeration | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [DocEnum](./api-documenter-test.docenum.md) | Docs for DocEnum |

## Functions

|  Function | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [exampleFunction(x, y)](./api-documenter-test.examplefunction.md) | An exported function with hyperlinked parameters and return value. |
|  [yamlReferenceUniquenessTest()](./api-documenter-test.yamlreferenceuniquenesstest.md) |  |

## Interfaces

|  Interface | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [DocClassInterfaceMerge](./api-documenter-test.docclassinterfacemerge.md) | Interface that merges with class |
|  [IDocInterface1](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface1.md) |  |
|  [IDocInterface2](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface2.md) |  |
|  [IDocInterface3](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface3.md) | Some less common TypeScript declaration kinds. |
|  [IDocInterface4](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface4.md) | Type union in an interface. |
|  [IDocInterface5](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface5.md) | Interface without inline tag to test custom TOC |
|  [IDocInterface6](./api-documenter-test.idocinterface6.md) | Interface without inline tag to test custom TOC with injection |

## Namespaces

|  Namespace | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [EcmaSmbols](./api-documenter-test.ecmasmbols.md) | A namespace containing an ECMAScript symbol |
|  [OuterNamespace](./api-documenter-test.outernamespace.md) | A top-level namespace |

## Variables

|  Variable | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [constVariable](./api-documenter-test.constvariable.md) | An exported variable declaration. |

## Type Aliases

|  Type Alias | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [ExampleTypeAlias](./api-documenter-test.exampletypealias.md) | A type alias |
|  [GenericTypeAlias](./api-documenter-test.generictypealias.md) |  |
|  [TypeAlias](./api-documenter-test.typealias.md) |  |
